README.md, before:

# vue-seo-friendly-spa-template
Vue.js PWA/SPA template configured for SEO (initially scaffolded with vue-cli). You can find the React version here: [react-seo-friendly-spa-template](https://github.com/based-ghost/react-seo-friendly-spa-template)


![demo](./demo/vue-seo-friendly-demo-2.gif)


## General Overview
This template mimics the setup I went through when experimenting with the creation of my own static front-end blog site that was to be hosted on Netlify (using GitHub as a repository/pipeline). You can find that experiment live here: https://basedghostdevelopment.com. After playing around with this process & technologies I figured I'd build a higher-level (yet still feature-rich) abstraction of that project for quick re-use in the future.

## Technology Stack Overview

### vue-cli

initial scaffolding

### vue-meta

[`vue-meta`](https://github.com/nuxt/vue-meta) - plugin that allows you to manage your app's meta information, much like [`react-helmet`](https://github.com/nfl/react-helmet) does for React. However, instead of setting your data as props passed to a proprietary component, you simply export it as part of your component's data using the metaInfo property.
  
I have it configured to use a utility function called `buildMetaInfo` which returns an object of type `MetaInfo` - in the component options of the component, you must declare the `metaInfo()` method, which must return an object of type `MetaInfo`:

e.g. `About.vue`
```typescript
    import { buildMetaInfo } from '@/utils/metaInfo';

    @Component({
        metaInfo() {
            return buildMetaInfo(RoutesConfig.About.meta.metaInfo);
        },
    })
    export default class About extends Vue { }
```

### vue-analytics

[`vue-analytics`](https://github.com/MatteoGabriele/vue-analytics) - Google Analytics manager plugin. The plugin isn't just a wrapper of the Google Analytics API, but provides a solution to issues that most of the time you don't want to deal with or you not even know you have to deal with.

My preferred configuration:
- id: replace with your GA tracking code
- checkDuplicatedScript: checks if the GA script has already been added/loaded before injecting - this is especially useful when you are using prerendering or SSR. You wont need to worry about removing a duplicate script tag or delaying the injection.
- router (pass the vue-router object and the plugin will handle route tracking/collection automatically).
- debug/sendHitTask: this controls when to actually fire GA collection requests - I configure it to only fire in production builds.

`main.ts`
```typescript
    import Vue from 'vue';
    import router from '@/router';
    import VueAnalytics from 'vue-analytics';

    Vue.use(VueAnalytics, {
        id: 'UA-xxxxxxxxx-x',
        checkDuplicatedScript: true,
        router,
        debug: {
            sendHitTask: (process.env.NODE_ENV === 'production'),
        },
    });
```

### prerender-spa-plugin

[`prerender-spa-plugin`](https://github.com/chrisvfritz/prerender-spa-plugin) - Prerenders static HTML in a single-page application. This is a more straightforward substitue for SSR (Server Side Rendering) and the primary benefit is SEO.

Configured in the app as follows:

`main.ts` - need to fire an event after the app is mounted to let the prerenderer know when to pick up from. 
`vue.config.js` - add the `renderAfterDocument` property to the renderer (value matching the event name dispatched in `main.ts`).

<strong>Note:</strong> This is only needed if you need to await the result of an async request. In the default state of this app, it is not needed, but I left it in just in case as the impact to load time is minimal).

`main.ts`
```typescript
// Mount app to Vue instance
// mounted() has callback to fire event that the prerender plugin listens for in order to take its snapshot
new Vue({
     router,
     render: (h) => h(App),
     mounted() {
         document.dispatchEvent(new Event('render-event'));
     },
}).$mount('#app');
```

`vue.config.js`
```javascript
renderer: new PrerenderSPAPlugin.PuppeteerRenderer({
  renderAfterDocumentEvent: 'render-event'
}),
```

Remainder of the configuration takes place in `vue.config.js` file where the plugin is added and configured. In the `postProcess` callback I am editing the prerendered content using `cheerio` so you can load the raw prerendered html string into a usable document and modify it using JQuery-like syntax, rather than parsing a long string and calling .replace. I found that adding a `defer` attribute to all the `script tags` is optimal since the initial render will not need any javascript loaded (the google analytics script will have the async attribute, so this will override the defer action and load in time for initial render) - this will allow the browser to load the scripts when needed and improve initial load performance. I also found that dynamically adding the `data-server-rendered='true'` attribute in the `postProcess` (rather than hard-coding in the index.html file) seems to work - this lets the client know that this nodes contents was rendered on server and to hydrate the html with changes, rather than render/replace.

## Scripts

### `npm install`

After cloning the repo, run this command.  This will:

- Install Node dependencies from package.json

### `npm run serve`

To start the app (development build), run this command.  This will:

- Compile the app and run on the development server

### `npm run lint`

- Run the linter (configured in the tslint.json file found in the root of this project)

### `npm run sitemap`

- This command will execute code in the sitemap-generator.js. Using the sitemapUrl parameter defined in that file (should reflect your registered domain name) a sitemap.xml is generated and persisted under the 'public' folder - this file is referenced in the robots.txt file. This uses the `sitemap-generator` package.

### `npm run build`

This script will:
 - Build release Webpack bundles

Commit message:

remove the google-analytics script tag from the prerendered result and allow the client to re-add later

README.md, after:

# vue-seo-friendly-spa-template
Vue.js PWA/SPA template configured for SEO (initially scaffolded with vue-cli). You can find the React version here: [react-seo-friendly-spa-template](https://github.com/based-ghost/react-seo-friendly-spa-template)

## Demo

![demo](./demo/vue-seo-friendly-demo-2.gif)

## General Overview
This template mimics the setup I went through when experimenting with the creation of my own static front-end blog site that was to be hosted on Netlify (using GitHub as a repository/pipeline). You can find that experiment live here: https://basedghostdevelopment.com. After playing around with this process & technologies I figured I'd build a higher-level (yet still feature-rich) abstraction of that project for quick re-use in the future.

## Technology Stack Overview

### vue-cli

initial scaffolding

### vue-meta

[`vue-meta`](https://github.com/nuxt/vue-meta) - plugin that allows you to manage your app's meta information, much like [`react-helmet`](https://github.com/nfl/react-helmet) does for React. However, instead of setting your data as props passed to a proprietary component, you simply export it as part of your component's data using the metaInfo property.
  
I have it configured to use a utility function called `buildMetaInfo` which returns an object of type `MetaInfo` - in the component options of the component, you must declare the `metaInfo()` method, which must return an object of type `MetaInfo`:

e.g. `About.vue`
```typescript
    import { buildMetaInfo } from '@/utils/metaInfo';

    @Component({
        metaInfo() {
            return buildMetaInfo(RoutesConfig.About.meta.metaInfo);
        },
    })
    export default class About extends Vue { }
```

### vue-analytics

[`vue-analytics`](https://github.com/MatteoGabriele/vue-analytics) - Google Analytics manager plugin. The plugin isn't just a wrapper of the Google Analytics API, but provides a solution to issues that most of the time you don't want to deal with or you not even know you have to deal with.

My preferred configuration:
- id: replace with your GA tracking code
- checkDuplicatedScript: checks if the GA script has already been added/loaded before injecting - this is especially useful when you are using prerendering or SSR. You wont need to worry about removing a duplicate script tag or delaying the injection.
- router (pass the vue-router object and the plugin will handle route tracking/collection automatically).
- debug/sendHitTask: this controls when to actually fire GA collection requests - I configure it to only fire in production builds.

`main.ts`
```typescript
    import Vue from 'vue';
    import router from '@/router';
    import VueAnalytics from 'vue-analytics';

    Vue.use(VueAnalytics, {
        id: 'UA-xxxxxxxxx-x',
        checkDuplicatedScript: true,
        router,
        debug: {
            sendHitTask: (process.env.NODE_ENV === 'production'),
        },
    });
```

### prerender-spa-plugin

[`prerender-spa-plugin`](https://github.com/chrisvfritz/prerender-spa-plugin) - Prerenders static HTML in a single-page application. This is a more straightforward substitue for SSR (Server Side Rendering) and the primary benefit is SEO.

Configured in the app as follows:

`main.ts` - need to fire an event after the app is mounted to let the prerenderer know when to pick up from. 
`vue.config.js` - add the `renderAfterDocument` property to the renderer (value matching the event name dispatched in `main.ts`).

<strong>Note:</strong> This is only needed if you need to await the result of an async request. In the default state of this app, it is not needed, but I left it in just in case as the impact to load time is minimal).

`main.ts`
```typescript
// Mount app to Vue instance
// mounted() has callback to fire event that the prerender plugin listens for in order to take its snapshot
new Vue({
     router,
     render: (h) => h(App),
     mounted() {
         document.dispatchEvent(new Event('render-event'));
     },
}).$mount('#app');
```

`vue.config.js`
```javascript
renderer: new PrerenderSPAPlugin.PuppeteerRenderer({
  renderAfterDocumentEvent: 'render-event'
}),
```

Remainder of the configuration takes place in `vue.config.js` file where the plugin is added and configured. In the `postProcess` callback I am editing the prerendered content using `cheerio` so you can load the raw prerendered html string into a usable document and modify it using JQuery-like syntax, rather than parsing a long string and calling .replace. I found that adding a `defer` attribute to all the `script tags` is optimal since the initial render will not need any javascript loaded - this will allow the browser to load the scripts when needed and improve initial load performance.

NOTE: I didn't get around to do much in the way of testing, but from what I have seen it also makes sense to remove the google-analytics script from the prerendered html and allow the client to add the script later and use it immediately. Appeared to speed up the initial load times.

 ALso, I found that dynamically adding the `data-server-rendered='true'` attribute in the `postProcess` (rather than hard-coding in the index.html file) seems to work - this lets the client know that this nodes contents was rendered on server and to hydrate the html with changes, rather than render/replace.

## Scripts

### `npm install`

After cloning the repo, run this command.  This will:

- Install Node dependencies from package.json

### `npm run serve`

To start the app (development build), run this command.  This will:

- Compile the app and run on the development server

### `npm run lint`

- Run the linter (configured in the tslint.json file found in the root of this project)

### `npm run sitemap`

- This command will execute code in the sitemap-generator.js. Using the sitemapUrl parameter defined in that file (should reflect your registered domain name) a sitemap.xml is generated and persisted under the 'public' folder - this file is referenced in the robots.txt file. This uses the `sitemap-generator` package.

### `npm run build`

This script will:
 - Build release Webpack bundles
